[DMS] March release branch, release Thursday 27 (#6603)
EnterpriseDB/docs: advocacy_docs/edb-postgres-ai/migration-etl/data-migration-service/getting_started/config_writer.mdx

#export DBCONFIG_DATABASES_0__TYPE=POSTGRES
#export DBCONFIG_DATABASES_0__HOSTNAME=localhost
#export DBCONFIG_DATABASES_0__PORT=5332
# The CATALOG is the database name
#export DBCONFIG_DATABASES_0__CATALOG=target
#export DBCONFIG_DATABASES_0__USERNAME=postgres
# The password env can be set without specifying it here
# but the env structure looks like this
#export DBCONFIG_DATABASES_0__PASSWORD=password

##############################################################################
# DMS Writer Object storage config, only necessary for appliance/local       #
##############################################################################
#export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=
#export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=
#export AWS_REGION=
#export AWS_CA_BUNDLE=
#export AWS_ENDPOINT_URL_S3=
#export BUCKET_NAME=

##########################################
# Optional parameters below              #
##########################################

# Configure logging
# Generic loglevel
#export QUARKUS_LOG_LEVEL=DEBUG
# Loglevel for a single package
#export QUARKUS_LOG_CATEGORY__COM_ENTERPRISEDB__LEVEL=DEBUG

cd $(dirname "$0")
java "${JAVA_OPTS}" -jar quarkus-run.jar
```

## Parameters

### `DBCONFIG_ID`

> This is the name you assign to identify a destination. This name will later appear as a _destination_ in the **Migrate** > **Destinations** section of the EDB Postgres AI Console.

Author: ```suggestion
This is the name you assign to identify a destination. This name will later appear as a _destination_ in the **Migrate** > **Destinations** section of the HCP Portal.
```

Consider the following ID guidelines:

- The maximum character length for the ID is 255 characters.
- You can use lowercase and uppercase characters, numbers, underscores(_) and hyphens(-) for the ID. Other special characters are not supported.
- The ID must be unique. The target instances cannot have the same ID.

### `RW_SERVICE_HOST`

> Specifies the URL of the service that will host the migration. `transporter-rw-service` is always https://transporter-rw-service.biganimal.com.

Reviewer: For this part, what I want to do is reference the contents here: https://effective-carnival-2kjozkr.pages.github.io/install/eks/installing/#prepare-the-values-file
But this is in the `hcp-docs` repo. So I can not do here.
Maybe we can update here after this change porting to `hcp-docs`

> Specifies the URL of the service that will host the migration. `transporter-rw-service` is always https://transporter-rw-service.biganimal.com.

Author: Cool, made a note in [DOCS-1270](https://enterprisedb.atlassian.net/browse/DOCS-1270) to do this. Thanks!

### `TLS_PRIVATE_KEY_PATH`

Directory path to the `client-key.pem` private key you downloaded from the EDB Postgres AI Console.

The HTTP client of the EDB DMS writer uses it to perform mTLS authentication with the `transporter-rw-service`.

### `TLS_CERTIFICATE_PATH`

Directory path to the X509 `client-cert.pem` certificate you downloaded from the EDB Postgres AI Console.

The HTTP client of the EDB DMS writer uses it to perform mTLS authentication with the `transporter-rw-service`.

### `TLS_CA_PATH`

> Directory path to the `int.cert` Certificate Authority you downloaded from the EDB Postgres AI Console.

Author: ```suggestion
Directory path to the `int.cert` Certificate Authority you downloaded from the HCP Portal.
```

It signs the certificate configured in `TLS_CERTIFICATE_PATH`.

### `APICURIOREQUEST_CLIENT_KEYSTORE_LOCATION`

> Directory path to the `client-keystore.p12` keystore location file you downloaded from the EDB Postgres AI Console.

Author: ```suggestion
Directory path to the `client-keystore.p12` keystore location file you downloaded from the HCP Portal.
```

This is a list of target database information you require for the EDB DMS writer be able to read the correct target database information for the migration.

You can configure the EDB DMS writer to migrate multiple databases. The `DBCONFIG_DATABASES_0__TYPE` section delimits the information for the first database. You can use `DBCONFIG_DATABASES_1__TYPE` to provide data for a second database. Add more sections to the EDB DMS writer (`DBCONFIG_DATABASES_2__TYPE`, `DBCONFIG_DATABASES_3__TYPE`) by increasing the index manually.

#### `DBCONFIG_DATABASES_0__TYPE`

This is the target database type. EDB DMS writer supports `POSTGRES`.

#### `DBCONFIG_DATABASES_0__HOSTNAME`

The hostname of the target database.

#### `DBCONFIG_DATABASES_0__PORT`

The port of the target database.

#### `DBCONFIG_DATABASES_0__CATALOG`

The database name in the target database server.

#### `DBCONFIG_DATABASES_0__USERNAME`

The database username of the target database.

#### `DBCONFIG_DATABASES_0__PASSWORD`

The password for the database username of the target database.

## Running the EDB DMS Writer

1.  Start the migration:

    ```shell
    cd /opt/cdcwriter
    ./run-cdcwriter.sh
    ```

> 1.  Go to the [EDB Postgres AI Console](https://portal.biganimal.com), and verify that a destination with the `DBCONFIG_ID` name is displayed in **Migrate** > **Destinations**.

Author: ```suggestion
1.  Go to the HCP Portal, and verify that a destination with the `DBCONFIG_ID` name is displayed in **Migrate** > **Destinations**.
```

---
title: "Configuring and running the EDB DMS Writer"
deepToC: true
redirects:
  - /purl/dms/configure_target
---

This step is optional. Configure and run the EDB DMS Writer only if the destination for your migration is a self-managed Postgres database.

## Getting credentials

1.  Access the Hybrid Control Plane Portal (HCP Portal) and log in with your EDB Postgres AI credentials.

> 1.  Select the project where you created the database cluster.

Reviewer: For the external target database use case, the writer can share the migration credential with reader. They can use the same credentials to simplify the user operation.

> 1.  Select the project where you created the database cluster.

Author: Perfect, if using the same credentials is not an issue, I think we can do as Matt suggested and recommend the reader to use a project to manage migration activities. Will implement the feedback once we have a few more answers on the other comments.

> 1.  Select the project where you created the database cluster.

Author: ```suggestion
1.  Select the HCP project you are using for your migration activities.
```

#export DBCONFIG_DATABASES_0__TYPE=POSTGRES
#export DBCONFIG_DATABASES_0__HOSTNAME=localhost
#export DBCONFIG_DATABASES_0__PORT=5332
# The CATALOG is the database name
#export DBCONFIG_DATABASES_0__CATALOG=target
#export DBCONFIG_DATABASES_0__USERNAME=postgres
# The password env can be set without specifying it here
# but the env structure looks like this
#export DBCONFIG_DATABASES_0__PASSWORD=password

##############################################################################
# DMS Writer Object storage config, only necessary for appliance/local       #
##############################################################################
#export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=
#export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=
#export AWS_REGION=
#export AWS_CA_BUNDLE=
#export AWS_ENDPOINT_URL_S3=
#export BUCKET_NAME=

##########################################
# Optional parameters below              #
##########################################

# Configure logging
# Generic loglevel
#export QUARKUS_LOG_LEVEL=DEBUG
# Loglevel for a single package
#export QUARKUS_LOG_CATEGORY__COM_ENTERPRISEDB__LEVEL=DEBUG

cd $(dirname "$0")
java "${JAVA_OPTS}" -jar quarkus-run.jar
```

## Parameters

> 

Author: Yeah, I think it is a good idea to clarify this. In the second step (line 26 of this file) we say: 

> Set the variables according to your environment and uncomment the edited lines. See [parameters](#parameters) for further guidance. The script is reproduced below. 

Would it be helpful if we said: 

> Set the variables according to your environment. Uncomment the lines as you edit or review them, the DMS can only perform migrations when all necessary values are provided. See [parameters](#parameters) for further guidance. The script is reproduced below.

### `DBCONFIG_ID`

This is the name you assign to identify a destination. This name will later appear as a _destination_ in the **Migrate** > **Destinations** section of the HCP Portal.

Consider the following ID guidelines:

- The maximum character length for the ID is 255 characters.
- You can use lowercase and uppercase characters, numbers, underscores(_) and hyphens(-) for the ID. Other special characters are not supported.

> - The ID must be unique. The target instances cannot have the same ID.

Author: I think I meant to say "Two target instances cannot have the same ID", but thinking about this more, I think we can get rid of the second sentence altogether, WDYT?

> - The ID must be unique. The target instances cannot have the same ID.

Reviewer 2: I think the second sentence should be removed.  However, I wonder if we need to be clearer about in what context the ID should be unique. I think ID must be unique from the perspective that it must not be the same as the name of any other currently running writers. Presumably readers have this same uniqueness constraint across other running readers.

@jperozoa or @yidian1997 can readers and writers have the same ID?  Also, is uniqueness required across an entire HCP deployment or is uniqueness only required within the context of an HCP project?  In other words, would it be accurate to say that two currently running readers or two currently running writers can have the same ID if they are in different projects? Or would it be accurate to say the no two currently running readers and no two currently running writers attached to the HCP, independent of the HCP project, can have the same ID?

The HTTP client of the EDB DMS writer uses it to perform mTLS authentication with the `transporter-rw-service`.

### `TLS_CERTIFICATE_PATH`

Directory path to the X509 `client-cert.pem` certificate you downloaded from the HCP Portal.

The HTTP client of the EDB DMS writer uses it to perform mTLS authentication with the `transporter-rw-service`.

### `TLS_CA_PATH`

Directory path to the `int.cert` Certificate Authority you downloaded from the HCP Portal.

It signs the certificate configured in `TLS_CERTIFICATE_PATH`.

### `APICURIOREQUEST_CLIENT_KEYSTORE_LOCATION`

Directory path to the `client-keystore.p12` keystore location file you downloaded from the HCP Portal.
It is created from the private key and certificate configured in `TLS_PRIVATE_KEY_PATH` and `TLS_CERTIFICATE_PATH`.

The Apicurio client uses it to perform mTLS authentication with the `transporter-rw-service`.

### `APICURIOREQUEST_TRUSTSTORE_LOCATION`

Created from the Certificate Authority configured in `TLS_CA_PATH`.

The Apicurio client uses it to perform mTLS authentication with the `transporter-rw-service`.

### `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`

> 1) If you are using AWS S3, set this value to an access key ID that has read and write permissions for the S3 bucket.

Reviewer: I think those access key related values should get from administrator.

> 1) If you are using AWS S3, set this value to an access key ID that has read and write permissions for the S3 bucket.

Author: Who can we ask more about this? If an admin needs to provide this information, where does he/she get it? 

Do they check in their AWS console? Is there a command they can run to fetch this and all subsequent values that start with `AWS_`? Or maybe all these values are related to something established during the installation of the HCP?

---
title: "Configuring and running the EDB DMS Writer"
deepToC: true
redirects:
  - /purl/dms/configure_target
---

This step is optional. Configure and run the EDB DMS Writer only if the destination for your migration is a self-managed Postgres database.

## Getting credentials

1.  Access the Hybrid Control Plane Portal (HCP Portal) and log in with your EDB Postgres AI credentials.

1.  Select the project where you created the database cluster.

1.  Within your project, select **Migrate** > **Credentials**.

1.  Select **Create Migration Credential** > **Download Credential**.

1.  Unzip the credentials folder and copy it to the host where the writer is installed.

## Configuring the writer

1.  Open the EDB DMS writer located in `/opt/cdcwriter/run-cdcwriter.sh` and ensure you have write permissions.

> 1.  Set the variables according to your environment and uncomment the edited lines. See [parameters](#parameters) for further guidance. The script is reproduced below.

Author: ```suggestion
1.  Set the variables according to your environment. Uncomment the lines as you edit or review them, the DMS can only perform migrations when all necessary values are provided. See [parameters](#parameters) for further guidance. The script is reproduced below.
```

# DMS Writer Object storage config, only necessary for appliance/local       #
##############################################################################
#export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=
#export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=
#export AWS_REGION=
#export AWS_CA_BUNDLE=
#export AWS_ENDPOINT_URL_S3=
#export BUCKET_NAME=

##########################################
# Optional parameters below              #
##########################################

# Configure logging
# Generic loglevel
#export QUARKUS_LOG_LEVEL=DEBUG
# Loglevel for a single package
#export QUARKUS_LOG_CATEGORY__COM_ENTERPRISEDB__LEVEL=DEBUG

cd $(dirname "$0")
java "${JAVA_OPTS}" -jar quarkus-run.jar
```

## Parameters

### `DBCONFIG_ID`

This is the name you assign to identify a destination. This name will later appear as a _destination_ in the **Migrate** > **Destinations** section of the HCP Portal.

Consider the following ID guidelines:

- The maximum character length for the ID is 255 characters.
- You can use lowercase and uppercase characters, numbers, underscores(_) and hyphens(-) for the ID. Other special characters are not supported.
- The ID must be unique. The target instances cannot have the same ID.

> ### `RW_SERVICE_HOST`

Author: @yidian1997  can you please take a look at this whole section and let me know what you think? Thanks!

Reviewer: Thanks, this part LGTM

Specifies the URL of the service that will host the migration. Set `RW_SERVICE_HOST` to the domain name or host associated with the HCP ingress.
        

> Derive `RW_SERVICE_HOST` from the `TRANSPORTER_RW_SERVICE_DOMAIN_NAME` you assigned to your instance during installation via the `values.yaml` file and add `/transporter`.

Author: ```suggestion
Derive `RW_SERVICE_HOST` from the `TRANSPORTER_RW_SERVICE_DOMAIN_NAME` that was assigned by the administrators or installers of your HCP instance via the `values.yaml` file, and add `/transporter`.
```
